.TH SUNCLOCK 1 "April 27, 2001"
.SH NAME
sunclock \- a fancy clock for the X Window system, providing local time
(legal time and solar time), sunrise, sunset and various geographical 
data through a point and click interface.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sunclock
[
.I options
]
.PP
where the list of licit options is the following long list 
(starting from (**) the options are configurable at runtime):
.PP
[-help] [-listmenu] [-version] \
[-display name] [-rcfile file] [-sharedir directory] \
[-clock] [-map] [-dock] \
[-menu] [-nomenu] [-selector] [-noselector] \
[-zoom] [-nozoom] [-option] [-nooption]
.PP
(**)  [-language name] [-dateformat string1|string2|...] \
[-command string] [-helpcommand string] \
[-clockimage file] [-mapimage file] [-mapmode * <L,C,S,D,E>] \
[-clockgeom <geom>] [-mapgeom <geom>] \
[-auxilgeom <geom>] [-menugeom <geom>] \
[-selgeom <geom>] [-zoomgeom <geom>] [-optiongeom <geom>] \
[-title name] [-clockclassname name] [-mapclassname name] \
[-auxilclassname name] [-classname name] \
[-menufont fontname] [-coordfont fontname] [-cityfont fontname] \
[-mapstripfont fontname] [-clockstripfont fontname] \
[-verbose] [-silent] [-synchro] [-nosynchro] [-zoomsync] [-nozoomsync] \
[-fullcolors] [-invertcolors] [-monochrome] [-aspect mode] \
[-placement (random, fixed, center, NW, NE, SW, SE)] \
[-placementshift x y] \
[-decimal] [-dms] [-city name] [-position latitude longitude] \
[-jump number[s,m,h,d,M,Y]] [-progress number[s,m,h,d,M,Y]] \
[-shading mode=0,1,2,3,4,5] [-diffusion value] [-refraction value] \
[-night] [-terminator] [-twilight] [-luminosity] [-lightgradient] \
[-nonight] [-darkness value<=1.0] [-colorscale number>=1] \
[-coastlines] [-contour] [-landfill] [-fillmode number=0,1,2] \
[-mag value] [-magx value] [-magy value] [-dx value ] [-dy value] \
[-tropics] [-notropics] [-sun] [-nosun] [-citymode mode=0,1,2] \
[-meridianmode mode=0,1,2,3] [-parallelmode mode=0,1,2,3] \
[-meridianspacing value] [-parallelspacing value] \
[-spotsize size(0,1,2,3,4,5)] [-dottedlines] [-plainlines] \
[-clockbgcolor color] [-clockfgcolor color] \
[-clockstripbgcolor color] [-clockstripfgcolor color] \
[-mapbgcolor color] [-mapfgcolor color] \
[-mapstripbgcolor color] [-mapstripfgcolor color] \
[-linecolor color] [-suncolor color] [-mooncolor color] \
[-meridiancolor color] [-parallelcolor] [-tropiccolor color] \
[-citycolor0 color] [-citycolor1 color] [-citycolor2 color] \
[-citynamecolor color] [-markcolor1 color] [-markcolor2 color] \
[-menubgcolor color] [-menufgcolor color] \
[-zoombgcolor color] [-zoomfgcolor color] \
[-optionbgcolor color] [-optionfgcolor color] [-caretcolor] \
[-changecolor color] [-choicecolor color] \
[-dircolor color] [-imagecolor color]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I sunclock
is an X11 application that displays a map of the Earth and indicates
the illuminated portion of the globe by drawing sunlit areas dark on
light, night areas as light on dark.  In addition to providing local
time for the default timezone, it also displays GMT time, legal and
solar time of major cities, their latitude and longitude, and the
mutual distances of arbitrary locations on Earth. Sunclock can display
meridians, parallels, tropics and arctic circles. It has builtin
functions that accelerate the speed of time and show the evolution of
seasons. Sunclock can be internationalized for various western languages.
It is possible to customize the app-default file and add new entries
for additional cities. 

Sunclock can commute between two states, the "clock window" and
the "map window". The clock window displays a small map of the Earth
and therefore occupies little space on the screen, while the "map window" 
displays a large map and offers more advanced functions. The Sunclock
package includes a resizable and zoomable vector map . External
Earth maps can also be loaded (as to version 3.30, formats .jpg, 
.xpm or .xpm.gz, .vmf can be read [.vmf is the specific vector map 
format of  sunclock]). Some additional formats could be added in the 
future.

The map window can work in five different modes:
.PP
- "Legal time" mode: legal time of default time zone and GMT time are 
displayed.
.PP
- "Coordinate" mode: by clicking on a city, users get coordinates 
(latitude, longitude) of that city, legal time and sunrise/sunset.
.PP
- "Solar" mode: by clicking on a point of the map (either a city or 
another point), solar time and day length are shown.
.PP
- "Hour Extension" mode: displays solar times from 00:00 to 23:00 in bottom
strip, according to the Sun position.
.PP
- "Distance" mode: shows distances in km and miles between two arbitrary
locations.
.PP
- "Progress" mode: allows to speed up the evolution of time, so as to
observe the evolution of day/night periods and seasons.
.PP
Depending on the mode chosen, the bottom line shows a short text
displaying the required information. The bottom line can be scrolled to
the right or to the left by pressing the horizontal key arrows.

All functionalities can be accessed though GUI actions on the main window
or the auxiliary windows. The main window is resizable by pulling the window
edges as the window manager under use permits it. There are 4 auxiliary windows:
.PP
- Menu Window. This is the main menu, which offers a wide list of actions. 
The menu window is launched by typing 'H' or clicking on the bottom 
strip with the left mouse button once. Each action can be obtained by using 
the indicated keyboard shortcut or by clicking with the mouse on the 
corresponding entry. Upper/lower case is irrelevant, except for options or 
actions which have more than 2 switches. Lower case then rotates the switches 
in one direction, upper case in the other direction. For those switches, 
the left mouse button will have the same effect as lower case, and the 
right mouse button the same effect as upper case.
.PP
- File Selector window. It can be accessed by clicking on the upper part 
of the main window with the middle mouse button. It allows to select
the Earth image file (in formats *.vmf *.xpm, *.xpm.gz, *.jpg) to be 
loaded.
.PP
- Zoom window. It can be accessed by clicking on the upper part
of the main window with the right mouse button. The zoom window
allows to select a specific area on the Earth, to translate or zoom 
it up to 100 times. High resolutions (larger than 10) are only recommended 
with the "huge" Earthmap of 11 Mbytes, which offers clean images up to
20 times magnification at least.
.PP
- Option window. Allows to reconfigure pretty much everything on the fly
(colors, fonts, etc), exactly as with the command line options.
.SH OPTIONS
The program does not use the Xt nor any other more advanced toolkit,
and hence only those options explicitly enumerated below may be used.
The only needed resource is the list of coordinates and timezones of
cities to be displayed. Users can possibly customize the system-wide 
prepackaged configuration file Sunclockrc, or their individual 
configuration file ~/.sunclockrc.
.TP
.BI "\-help "
Show brief help and exit.
.TP
.BI "\-listmenu "
Explanations on the actions available from the builtin menu.
.TP
.BI "\-version "
Show program version and exit.
.TP
.BI "\-verbose "
Make Sunclock verbose. The program then sends to stderr some information 
on the internal operations performed. This is disabled by default.
.TP
.BI "\-silent "
Make Sunclock silent about internal operations performed. This is the default.
.TP
.B "\-display " dispname
Give the name of the X server to contact.
.TP
.B "\-language " name
Select language to be used in the sunclock menu and help.
.TP
.B "\-title name"
Change the specification of the string which should appear in the title bar
of the main and auxiliary windows. Default is the application name, 
i.e., sunclock.
.TP
.B "\-classname name"
Change the specification of class application name. Default is
Sunclock. Other specifications can be passed so that aware window
managers might use it for configuration purposes. You might e.g.
pass -classname NoTitle-Sticky, and configure properly your WM so
that it removes the title bar, and make the window sticky with respect 
to the Desktop Pager. With fvwm, you could use for instance
.PP
Style "*NoTitle*"    NoTitle, WindowListHit, Sticky
.PP
Style "*ShowTitle*"  Title, WindowListHit, Slippery
.PP
Style "*Sticky*"     Sticky
.PP
to get specify such a behaviour.
.TP
.B "\-menufont " name
Select the menu font, used in the bottom line of the map window, in the 
menu, file selection, zoom and option windows. Default is 6x13
.TP
.B "\-coordfont " name 
Select the coordinates font, used when writing coordinates on the map 
window. Default is 6x13.
.TP
.B "\-cityfont " name 
Select the city font, used when writing city names on the map window. 
Default is 6x10.
.TP
.B "\-mapstripfont " name 
Select the map strip font, used in the bottom line of the map window. 
Default is 6x13.
.TP
.B "\-clockstripfont " name 
Select the (normally smaller) clock strip font, used in the bottom line of 
the clock window. Default is 6x10.
.TP
.B "\-rcfile " filename
Select a configuration file that is possibly different than the system 
wide app-default Sunclock or the user default ~/.sunclockrc. The rcfile
(or user default) has a higher priority than the system wide app-default, 
but it can be overriden by the command line options which still have 
a higher priority.
.TP
.B "\-sharedir " directory
Set the directory where system wide shared Earthmaps are located.
Default is /usr/share/sunclock/earthmaps.
.TP
.B "\-mapimage " file.jpg (or file.vmf, file.xpm, file.xpm.gz)
Start sunclock with an Earth map image loaded in the map window.
.TP
.B "\-clockimage " file.jpg (or file.vmf, file.xpm, file.xpm.gz)
Start sunclock with an Earth map image loaded in the clock window. 
The same maps can be used used for the map and clock windows, but
in the latter case they will tend to be scaled down.
.TP
.B "\-fullcolors "
Use full color mode (default). This mode is needed to load jpeg or 
other colorful images. Day and night can be drawn with various shading
parameters. This is the recommended option if you have a reasonably
recent machine with enough video RAM, otherwise see below.
.TP
.B "\-monochrome "
Use monochrome settings. Day and night appear respectively as 
mapbgcolor (white by default) and mapfgcolor (black by default), and 
no shading is available. This mode saves a lot of CPU power - since 
a simple algorithm of inversion of colors is used to set colors of all 
points in the map. It can be useful for very slow CPUs, such as those 
in use in PDAs with black and white screen. Only .vmf vector maps can
be loaded in this mode. 
.TP
.B "\-invertcolors "
The map appears exactly as for the -monochrome option, but menus
and cities are now shown in colors. This mode only involves about 15 colors 
in total, and can be used for Pseudocolor displays which only have a
small number of available colors. The -monochrome and -invertcolors options
considerably reduce memory and CPU usage, and can be useful on
slower machines. The option can also be useful if you want to produce 
Earth maps in which only the coast lines of continents and lands.
.TP
.B "\-dock "
With this option, sunclock locks the size of the first launched window,
if this is a (small) clock. Also, this window cannot be closed unless
all other windows are closed as well.
.TP
.B "\-synchro "
With this option, sunclock updates all windows simultaneously. This, of 
course, requires more CPU time and may slow down sunclock's operation 
if too many windows have been opened. The default is to update only the 
active window. 
.TP
.B "\-nosynchro "
With this option, sunclock only updates the active window. This is the
default.
.TP
.B \-clock
Start in the clock state. This is the default and thus need not be
specified.
.TP
.BI "\-dateformat string1|string2|..."
Set the format(s) used in the text output in the bottom strip of the clock. 
The default date format consists of 3 strings:
.PP
  %H:%M%_%a%_%d%_%b%_%y|%H:%M:%S%_%Z|%a%_%j/%t%_%U/52
.PP
Here %H,%M,%S stand for hour, minutes, seconds, %a for dayname, 
%b for monthname, %d for monthday number, %j for yearday number,
%m for month number, %y for year last two digits, %Y for year number,
%t for number of days in year (365 or 366), %Z for timezone, %U for week
number (week #1 is the week with the first thursday of the year); all
other characters are reproduced as such, except %_ which stands for a 
blank space, %% which stands for % and %| which stands for |. The vertical 
bar | is used as a delimiter to indicate successive time formats. There 
can be as many formats as desired, and the actual selection cycles through
all these formats by clicking on the bottom strip with the mouse. The 
first string (i.e. the one preceding the first bar) is taken as the 
default format.
.TP
.BI "\-map "
Start in the map state.  Useful to start right away with advanced 
functionalities.
.TP
.BI "\-decimal "
Initializes coordinate values of geographical data in decimal degrees.
However, this can still be switched at runtime.
.TP
.BI "\-dms "
Initializes coordinate values of geographical data in degrees, minutes
and seconds. However, this can still be switched at runtime.
.TP
.B "\-menu "
Raise the menu window along with the main (map, clock) window.
.TP
.B "\-nomenu "
Don't raise the menu window along with the main (map, clock) window.
This is the default.
.TP
.B "\-selector "
Raise the selector window along with the main (map, clock) window.
.TP
.B "\-noselector "
Don't raise the selector window along with the main (map, clock) window.
This is the default.
.TP
.B "\-zoom "
Raise the zoom window along with the main (map, clock) window.
.TP
.B "\-nozoom "
Don't raise the zoom window along with the main (map, clock) window.
This is the default.
.TP
.B "\-aspect " mode
Sets the aspect mode, i.e. the way by which zooming behaves with 
respect to horizontal and vertical directions. Mode = 0 means that no 
synchronizations are made, mode = 1 means that the zoom factors are
always made to be equal, mode = 2 (the more subtle one) means that 
the horizontal and vertical zoom factors are adjusted so that the
region located near the central point of the zoomed area will be
conformal to its actual geometry on Earth, i.e. will not appear to be
distorted horizontally or vertically.  This won't be true elsewhere,
though, especially if the zoomed area is large.
.TP
.B "\-zoomsync "
When the option is set, the zoom window will open in synchronization mode:
any zooming action made from the main map or from the zoom window will 
take place as the mouse button is released (or as a key is pressed).
This is the default when the zoom window has not been opened 
(synchronization is automatically set).
.TP
.B "\-nozoomsync "
When set, the zoom window will open in non-synchro mode. Synchronizing
the zoom will still be possible, though, by clicking on the "Synchro"
button. By default, synchronization does not occur when the zoom window
is opened, unless option -zoomsync has been set.
.TP
.BI "\-mapmode * (single character = C, D, E, L or S)"
Start the map functions in mode (C)oordinates, (D)istances, hour (E)xtension,
(L)egal time or (S)olar time respectively. Any other specification is 
ignored. Default is legal time mode.
.TP
.BI "\-placement " <choice>\ (random, fixed, center, NW, NE, SW, SE)
Specify whether commuting between clock and map windows should proceed
with letting the the window centers, respectively, the NW, NE, SW, SE 
corners fixed, or rather whether it should operate randomly, or through 
user defined placement. Default is NW placement.
.TP
.BI "\-placementshift " x y
Relative displacement <clock window> --> <map window>, to apply with
respect to the -placement specification. If placement is NW, then
the NW window corner will move by (x,y) pixels. Defaut is (0,0), i.e.
no modification to apply to the -placement specification.
.TP
.BI "\-clockgeom " (width)x(height)+(x coord)+(y coord)
Specify the geometry of the clock window, i.e. its size and position
(absolute position with respect to the left upper corner of the screen).
.TP
.BI "\-mapgeom " (width)x(height)+(x coord)+(y coord)
Specify the geometry of the map window, i.e. its size and position
(absolute position with respect to the left upper corner of the screen).
.TP
.BI "\-menugeom " +(x coord)+(y coord)
Specify the relative position (x = horizontal shift, y = vertical shift)
of the menu window with respect to the main window, starting from the 
bottom edge of the main window (from its top edge in case of SW or 
SE placements, see above). The y value may need an adjustment, according 
to the height of the title bar allocated by the window manager, if any. 
In the case of the menu window, width and height solely depend on the 
menufont, and therefore any given specification of width and height is 
ignored. The default relative position is x = 0, y = 30. 
.TP
.BI "\-selgeom " (width)x(height)+(x coord)+(y coord)
Specify the geometry of the selector window. The position specification 
is relative to the main window (or to the menu, when the menu is raised).
See above option -menugeom for further explanations. The default geometry
of the selector window is 600x180+0+30.
.TP
.BI "\-zoomgeom " (width)x(height)+(x coord)+(y coord)
Specify the geometry of the zoom window. The position specification 
is relative to the main window (or to the menu, when the menu is raised).
See above option -menugeom for further explanations. The default geometry
of the zoom window is 500x320+0+30.
.TP
.BI "\-optiongeom " (width)x(height)+(x coord)+(y coord)
Specify the geometry of the option window. The position specification 
is relative to the main window (or to the menu, when the menu is raised).
See above option -menugeom for further explanations. The height
specification depends solely on the selected menufont and is therefore
ignored. The default geometry of the option window is 630x80+0+30. 
.TP
.BI "\-auxilgeom " +(x coord)+(y coord)
Specify the relative position (x = horizontal shift, y = vertical shift)
of the auxiliary windows (menu, zoom, selector, option). All relative 
displacements are set to (x,y).
.TP
.BI "\-spotsize " size
Define size=0 [=no spots] or 1,2,3 to use either thin circles, medium
size spots or big spots and circles to represent cities. Size=3
can be useful for monochrome displays on which cities are hardly
visible, otherwise small color spots of size 1 or 2 are better).
Default is 2 for color mode and 3 for monochrome mode.
.TP
.BI "\-mag " value
Rescale the image by a magnification factor equal to <value>, which must 
be at least equal to 1.0. This means that the window only shows a fraction 
of the entire map namely, 1/<value> x 1/<value>. Default value is 1.0.
.TP
.BI "\-magx " value
Same as for the -mag option, but only the x direction (width) is rescaled. 
Default value for magx is 1.0.
.TP
.BI "\-magy " value
Same as for the -mag option, but only the y direction (height) is rescaled. 
Default value for magy is 1.0.
.TP
.BI "\-dx " value (degrees)
Options -dx and -dy allow to set the longitude, respectively the latitude,
of the city or location at which the zoom area should be centered.
The values should be given in degrees. Default (dx,dy) is (0.0,0.0). 
.TP
.BI "\-dy " value (degrees)
See -dx above.
.TP
.BI "\-coastlines "
In the builtin vector map, generate coast lines without filling the
land areas.
.TP
.BI "\-contour "
As before, but use a smart algorithm which eliminates \"redundant\" coast
lines, especially at lower resolutions (in case the coasts are very
irregular, some parts may disappear but the overall picture looks sharper).
.TP
.BI "\-landfill "
In the builtin vector map, fill the land areas without generating coast 
lines.
.TP
.BI "\-fillmode " 0,1,2
Fillmode=0 is equivalent to -coastlines, fillmode=1 is equivalent to 
-contour, and fillmode=2 is equivalent to -landfill.
.TP
.BI "\-dottedlines "
Use dotted lines to represent meridians and parallels.
.TP
.BI "\-plainlines "
Use plain lines to represent meridians and parallels.
.TP
.BI "\-command " string
Specify an external action or program that will be called through keyboard 
shortcut 'x'. Default is empty command.
.TP
.BI "\-helpcommand " string
Specify an external action or program that will be called through keyboard 
shortcut double 'h' (call help). Default is 
"xterm -fn 9x15 -cr green -ms red -e man sunclock &".
.TP
.BI "\-jump " number[unit] (where unit=s,m,h,d,M,Y)
Number of seconds (respectively minutes, hour, days, Months, Years) 
by which the current date and time should be shifted. No blank space
should separate the number and its unit. If the unit is absent, the 
number is understood to be expressed by default in seconds. Useful to get 
sunclock display information on earlier or later epochs.
.TP
.BI "\-progress " number[unit] (where unit=s,m,h,d,M,Y)
Number of seconds (respectively minutes, hour, days, Months, Years) 
by which the time progression should operate. No blank space
should separate the number and its unit. If the unit is absent, the number
is understood to be expressed by default in seconds. Useful to get sunclock 
progress by other steps than the predefined ones (by default the steps 
cycle between the values 1 mn, 1 hour, 1 day, 7 days, 30 days).
.TP
.BI "\-city " name
Initialize program so as to display data of city 'name'. This becomes
effective only if the above mentioned city is listed in the app-default 
or rc file. The operating mode is set to Coordinates mode.
.TP
.BI "\-position " latitude longitude
Initialize program so as to display data of the position specified by 
two coordinates (in degrees). The operating mode is set to Solar time mode.
.TP
.BI "\-shading " mode=0,1,2,3,4,5
Start sunclock with the specified shading mode. Mode 0 means that the night
area is not displayed. In higher modes, the night area is displayed, with
increasingly sophisticated shading algorithms. Mode 1 stands for no shading
(i.e. just bright and dark colors are shown). Mode 2 shades the 
terminator area -- the area in which the sun is partially hidden by the 
horizon. Mode 3 shades the region in which there is still substantial 
luminosity left after sunset (depending on the diffusion parameter below). 
Default is 3° below horizon. Mode 4 additionally represents the luminosity 
values in all parts of the illuminated area. Mode 5 represents the gradient
of luminosity from the brightest area (facing the sun) to the darkest area
(opposite to the sun); this has nothing to do, though, with the actual
luminosity values.
.TP
.BI "\-nonight "
Start sunclock with the night region not drawn. This is
equivalent to \-shading 0.
.TP
.BI "\-night "
Start sunclock with the night region in plain shading mode. This is
equivalent to \-shading 1.
.TP 
.BI "\-terminator " 
Equivalent to \-shading 2 
.TP 
.BI "\-twilight "
Equivalent to \-shading 3 
.TP 
.BI "\-luminosity "
Equivalent to \-shading 4
.TP 
.BI "\-lightgradient "
Equivalent to \-shading 5
.TP
.BI "\-diffusion " value (degrees)
Sets the amplitude of the area in which diffusion of light in the
atmosphere is still sufficient to keep some luminosity after sunset.
Default is 3 degrees.
.TP
.BI "\-refraction " value (degrees)
Sets the value of the refraction angle for tangential sun rays at sunset.
This is related to the fact that the sun sometimes looks bigger at sunset.
Changing the refraction degree slightly affects the computation of sunrise
and sunset times. Default is 0.1 degree.
.TP
.BI "\-darkness " value (in the range 0.0 ... 1.0)
Sets the constrast between day and night areas. A 0.0 value means that 
the night area will not be distinguishable from day, while 1.0 means that 
it will be completely black. Default is 0.5.
.TP
.BI "\-colorscale " value (integer in the range 1 ... 256)
Sets the number of color subdvisions which will be in use for producing
shading, that is, the number of colors ranging from bright colors (day)
to dark colors (night). Default is 16.
.TP
.BI "\-meridianmode mode=0,1,2,3"
Start sunclock with meridians displayed or not, according to the mode,
mode=0 : no meridians, mode=1 : meridians drawn, mode=2 : meridians drawn
with labels at the bottom, mode=3 : meridians drawn with labels at the top.
The default mode is 0 (no meridians).
.TP
.BI "\-parallelmode mode=0,1,2,3"
Start sunclock with parallels displayed or not, according to the mode,
mode=0 : no parallels, mode=1 : parallels drawn, mode=2 : parallels drawn
with labels at the left hand side, mode=3 : parallels drawn with labels 
at the right hand side. The default mode is 0 (no parallels).
.TP
.BI "\-citymode mode=0,1,2"
Start sunclock with cities displayed or not, according to the mode,
mode=0 : no cities, mode=1 : cities drawn, mode=2 : cities drawn
with their names. The default mode is 1 (cities shown without names).
.TP
.BI "\-tropics "
Start sunclock with tropics and arctic circles displayed (by default, 
they aren't).
.TP
.BI "\-sun "
Start sunclock with the Sun position displayed (by default, it is).
.TP
.BI "\-notropics \-nosun "
These options just negate the above ones.
.TP
.BI "\-menubgcolor " color
Specifies the various menus text background color. Default is Grey92.
.TP
.BI "\-menufgcolor " color
Specifies the various menus text foreground color. Default is Black.
.TP
.BI "\-clockbgcolor " color
Specifies the clock background color to be used with inverted color maps
(option -invertcolors). Default is White.
.TP
.BI "\-clockfgcolor " color
Specifies the clock foreground color to be used with inverted color maps
(option -invertcolors). Default is Black.
.TP
.BI "\-mapbgcolor " color
Specifies the map background color to be used with inverted color maps
(option -invertcolors). Default is White.
.TP
.BI "\-mapfgcolor " color
Specifies the map foreground color to be used with inverted color maps
(option -invertcolors). Default is Black.
.TP
.BI "\-mapstripbgcolor " color
Specifies the background color to be used for the strip of the map window
(options -invertcolors and -fullcolors). Default is White.
.TP
.BI "\-mapstripfgcolor " color
Specifies the foreground color to be used for the strip of the map window
(options -invertcolors and -fullcolors). Default is White.
.TP
.BI "\-clockstripbgcolor " color
Specifies the background color to be used for the strip of the clock window
(options -invertcolors and -fullcolors). Default is White.
.TP
.BI "\-clockstripfgcolor " color
Specifies the foreground color to be used for the strip of the clock window
(options -invertcolors and -fullcolors). Default is White.
.TP
.BI "\-zoombgcolor " color
Specifies the zoom area background color to be used with the small
monochrome map used in the zoom widget. Default is White.
.TP
.BI "\-zoomfgcolor " color
Specifies the zoom area foreground color to be used with the small
monochrome map used in the zoom widget. Default is Black.
.TP
.BI "\-optionbgcolor " color
Specifies the option text entry background color. Default is White.
.TP
.BI "\-optionfgcolor " color
Specifies the option text entry foreground color. Default is Black.
.TP
.BI "\-caretcolor " color
Specifies the color of the caret used in the option text entry. 
Default is SkyBlue2.
.TP
.BI "\-changecolor " color
Specifies the color to be used for widget objects that are supposed
to indicate a change or a move (selector and zoom). Default is Brown.
.TP
.BI "\-choicecolor " color
Specifies the color to be used for widget objects that are supposed
to indicate a new selection (selector and zoom). Default is SkyBlue2.
.TP
.BI "\-dircolor " color
Specifies the color used for representing directories in the file selection
widget. Default is Blue.
.TP
.BI "\-imagecolor " color
Specifies the color used in the file selection widget for representing the 
image files whose formats are recognized and can be read. Default is Magenta.
.TP
.BI "\-citynamecolor " color
Specifies the color of text to be used to indicate city names. Default is Red.
.TP
.BI "\-citycolor0 " color
Specifies the color of cities (as described in ~/.sunclockrc or in
the systemwide app-default file), when they have not yet been clicked 
on with the mouse. Default is Orange.
.TP
.BI "\-citycolor1 " color
Specifies the color to be applied to the city which has been selected just
before the last selection, during the process of calculating distances.
Default is Red.
.TP
.BI "\-citycolor2 " color
Specifies the color to be applied to the last selected city. The name and
coordinates of this city are displayed in the bottom line. Default is 
Red3 (darker red).
.TP
.BI "\-markcolor1 " color
Specifies the color to be applied to the first marked position
(any location on Earth other than one of the cities). Default is Pink1.
.TP
.BI "\-markcolor2 " color
Specifies the color to be applied to the second marked position.
Default is Pink2.
.TP
.BI "\-linecolor " color
Specifies the color to be applied to meridian and parallel lines.
Default is White.
.TP
.BI "\-tropiccolor " color
Specifies the color to be applied to Equator/Tropics/Arctic circles.
Default is White.
.BI "\-suncolor " color
Specifies the color to be applied to Sun.
Default is Yellow.
.PP
Users may keep a file in their home directory called ~/.sunclockrc. This
file can contain specify any number of options which are also available
as command line options, following a heading [Options]:
.PP
[Options]
.PP
mapmode: L
.PP
language: en
.PP
city: Washington
.PP
map
.PP
mapimage: /usr/share/sunclock/earthmaps/jpeg/caida.jpg
.PP
tropics
.PP
twilight
.PP
There should be only one option specified per line. A list of cities can
also be specified under a heading [Cities], in the following format:
.PP
name: latitude longitude timezone
.PP
.PP
where name is the ascii name of the place to be shown on the map.
Latitude and longitude are floating point numbers representing the
geographical location of the place. Western longitudes and southern latitudes
should be entered as negative numbers. timezone is the name of the timezone
that the place is in. This should be the name of a file under
/usr/share/zoneinfo (or whatever directory is used on your system),
incorrect timezones cause the clock to display GMT. It is also possible to
reference a file in a directory relative to /usr/share/zoneinfo for example
Canada/Eastern instead of EST5EDT.
.PP
The user may click on the dot on the map associated with a place
defined in the .sunclockrc file. When this is done, the city name and its 
corresponding local time and time zone will be displayed in the bottomline.
.SH "HOW IT WORKS"
.I sunclock
calculates the position of the Sun using the algorithm in chapter 18 of:
.PP
.I "Astronomical Formulae for Calculators"
by Jean Meeus, Third Edition, Richmond: Willmann-Bell, 1985.
.PP
and Mercator projects the illuminated area onto map image.  The
Sun's position is calculated to better than one arc-second
in accuracy.
.SH BUGS
Sunclock makes intensive use of pointers and memory allocation/deallocation,
so memory leaks might still be possible under some circumstances. 
However, the program has been thoroughly debugged, and crashes seem 
to be rather rare. As new features are introduced, older ones may become 
broken during the phase of development :-(
.PP
The illuminated area shown is the area which would be sunlit
if the Earth atmosphere would be absolutely uniform.  The actual 
illuminated area may depend on weather, temperature, atmospheric 
refraction and diffusion, etc.
.SH AUTHORS
John Walker, Autodesk, Inc., <kelvin@acad.uu.NET>, wrote the original
Suntools program from which sunclock is derived.
.PP
John Mackin, Basser Department of Computer Science, University of Sydney,
Sydney, Australia, <john@cs.su.oz.AU>, wrote the X11 version out of Suntools.
.PP
Stephen Martin, Fujitsu Systems Business of Canada, smartin@fujitsu.ca,
added support for interactive map.
.PP
Jean-Pierre Demailly, Université de Grenoble I, 
demailly@fourier.ujf-grenoble.fr worked out versions 3.xx, which add many 
new major features (loading maps, shading, zoom functionalities, 
configuration of options on the fly at runtime, through a point and click
GUI interface).
